# Hangman_cpp

## The Game
#### Hangman is a guessing game in which the player is tasked with guessing a word. The word’s length is known at the start of the game. The player has the option of either guessing a letter in the word, or attempting to guess the word itself. If the player guesses wrong, they are penalized and a part of a hanging man diagram is drawn. The objective of the game is to correctly guess the word before the diagram is completed.

## The Program
#### Before the game initiates, the program begins by pseudo-randomly selecting a target word from Wordbank.txt. The file_path to pass to the RandomWordGenerator() function must be specified before running the program. Guesses in the game are case-insensitive; both the target word and user guesses are transformed to uppercase before any comparisons are made. 
#### During the game the user is prompted to guess the target word continually until either they guess correctly, or the hanging man diagram is completed (when user completes 8 tries). The user’s guess must either be a single letter or equal to the length of the target word. If these conditions are not met, the user is prompted to re-enter their guess until an appropriate guess is made. At every prompt the current state of the hanging man diagram, the letters yet to be guessed by the user, and what they have so far guessed correctly, are presented to the user. 
#### This program is written in C++ and uses the iostream library to print the game to the console; this game does not include a GUI. 
#### This program uses a function called CenterPrint() to center align game output according to the game’s configured width. The game’s width is configured at 45 character spaces, but can be modified. The function CheckGameWidth() checks to ensure that the game’s configured width is not less than what is required to print the game’s functions. The minimum width required is 25 characters long, which is the length required to print output in  PrintAvailableLetters(). The possibility of a target word longer than 25 characters is also considered (Note, no target word of 25 characters is found in Wordbank.txt). If either conditions are not met, the function enlarges the game’s width to the minimum required width. 
